---
layout: post
title: "Getting your ass kicked"
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). September 10, 2011

Being the nerd in town comes with the imponderable pleasure of having the reputation of being a lazy ass. And was I lazy. The only exercise I got was walking down the stairs of my apartment, crossing the street to eventually fall into the comfort of my car. I had my reputation to uphold so I never even thought about doing anything remotely resembling sports. Why would anyone kick their own ass for the sake of burning calories? To be honest, it's not really healthy for me to burn anything. Currently I'm dangerously underweight and there's not much I can do about that. Or can I? Some time ago, when I was having a cold for the third time this year, I realized I was kicking my own ass by not doing any exercise. I wasn't gaining weight because of it either.

I like having some web development projects on the side. It's my dream to one day have a successful startup but that means spending a lot of hours on the computer cranking out code, reading up on the news and answering e-mails. I still think I can combine the two but really, why spend most of my time on the internet? It's kind of a ridiculous thing to do when I obviously have a problem with my health. While I was in Turkey for a few days I decided I need to stop doing when I do best (being lazy) and let nature kick my ass until I eventually have some form of stamina. Yesterday I picked up my Trek DS 8.4 bike and just now I finished a 12 kilometer trip with an average speed of 24km/h. It's not much and I'm absolutely dead tired but I'm sure I'll get there. My bike is wonderful to ride, it's light and it goes like hell.

My reputation of being a lazy nerd will persist for quite some time, I'm sure. Not all of my friends are happy with my new direction but that doesn't stop me. I'm doing this for the most important thing I have: my health. Without a healthy body I can't be a friend, I can't help other people, I can't do the work that needs to be done. I hope some day everyone will realize this and let me do my thing.

p.s. "RunKeeper":http://runkeeper.com/user/mijndert/ is a nice way to have some stats while on the go. It's a great way to motivate yourself by raising your average speed or beat your own distance record.